nf40: Add code and docs. (#143)
blues/app-accelerators: 40-car-detector/README.md

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/full_hardware_assembly.jpg"/>
</p>

## Collecting Data

You'll use the [OpenMV IDE](https://openmv.io/pages/download) to collect data to train your car detection model.

1. Launch the IDE and click the Connect button in the bottom left corner.
2. Click Tools > Dataset Editor > New Dataset and pick a folder where your dataset will live.
3. A script called dataset_capture_script.py will appear in the IDE. Replace its contents with this code:
    ```python
    import sensor, image, time

    sensor.reset()
    sensor.set_pixformat(sensor.GRAYSCALE)
    sensor.set_framesize(sensor.QQVGA)
    sensor.set_windowing((120, 120))
    sensor.skip_frames(time=2000)

    clock = time.clock()

    while(True):
        clock.tick()
        img = sensor.snapshot()
        print(clock.fps())
    ```
    The resolution, 120x120, is deliberately low in order to keep the model small enough to run on the board's microcontroller (MCU), but feel free to tune it to your liking.
4. Click the Start button in the bottom left corner, below the Connect button. At this point, you should see a live stream of images coming in the Frame Buffer window.

> 5. Using the Frame Buffer, position your camera so that its looking at the roadway where you want to detect cars:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Using the Frame Buffer, position your camera so that it's looking at the roadway where you want to detect cars:
```

## Deploying the Model

With your model trained, you'll now deploy it to the OpenMV cam's MCU.

1. With your Edge Impulse project open, click Deployment in the left-hand toolbar.
2. Search for "openmv" in the deployment options search bar and pick OpenMV Firmware.
3. Click Build and wait for the download to complete.
4. Follow [the "Deploying your impulse as an OpenMV firmware" section of this Edge Impulse article](https://docs.edgeimpulse.com/docs/deployment/running-your-impulse-openmv#deploying-your-impulse-as-an-openmv-firmware) to get the model onto your microcontroller using the OpenMV IDE.

## Notehub Setup

In order to push data from the Notecard to the cloud, you need to sign up for a free account on [notehub.io](https://notehub.io) and [create a new project](https://dev.blues.io/quickstart/notecard-quickstart/notecard-and-notecarrier-pi/#set-up-notehub).

## MicroPython Code

The script that will run on the MCU is `main.py`. It depends on [note-python](https://github.com/blues/note-python), a Python library for communicating with a Notecard.

### note-python

> To get the note-python files onto the MCU, use the `setup_board.py` script. First, you must identify the MCU's serial port. On Linux, it'll typically be something like `/dev/ttyACM0`. Once you have that, run `python setup_board.py <serial port>`, replacing `<serial port>` with your serial port. This script does a few things:

Reviewer: > you must identify the MCU's serial port

Is there anything you could link to to help people with this? I would have no idea what to do.

1. Clones note-python from GitHub.
2. Creates the `/lib` and `/lib/notecard` directories on the MCU.
3. Copies the `.py` files from `note-python/notecard` on your development machine to `/lib/notecard` on the MCU.
4. Lists the contents of `/lib/notecard` so you can verify that everything was copied over.

### `main.py`

`main.py` loops infinitely, grabbing an image from the camera and running it through your model. The output of the model is a probability value in the range [0, 1], with 0 corresponding to a 0% probability of a car being in the image and 1 corresponding to a 100% probability. If this probability exceeds a configurable threshold (discussed further below), a car "event" begins. The event ends once the probability has dropped below the threshold for 12 consecutive images.*

> Once an event ends, a note is added to the [Notefile](https://dev.blues.io/api-reference/glossary/#notefile) `events.qo` in this format:

Reviewer: Very, very trivial but “events.qo Notefile” sounds nicer than “Notefile events.qo” to me.

```json
{
    "body":
    {
        "start": 1688426489,
        "end": 1688426491
    }
}
```

`start` and `end` are [Unix timestamps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) indicating when the event started and ended, respectively. The OpenMV cam board has an [RTC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_clock), which `main.py` initializes by fetching the time from the Notecard with [`card.time`](https://dev.blues.io/api-reference/notecard-api/card-requests/#card-time). This allows `main.py` to timestamp events. Note that on power up, the Notecard will take some time to sync with Notehub. Until this sync happens, the time won't be valid, and `main.py` will keep trying to set the time before proceeding to its detection loop.

Although event notes are added to `events.qo` as they happen, these notes are only synced to Notehub periodically. How often this syncing occurs is controlled by an environment variable, `publish_period`, which is covered in the next section.

> \* The number of frames requires to start an event is controlled by the variable `event_start_threshold` in `main.py`. It's set to 1 by default. This low value is good for detecting fast moving cars that are only in the shot for a brief time. The number of frames required to end an event is controlled by the variable `event_end_threshold`. It's set to 12 by default, which was empirically determined to be a good value for our setup, as it prevented a single event from being counted multiple times. Feel free to tweak these threshold values based on your situation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of frames required to start an event is controlled by the variable `event_start_threshold` in `main.py`. It's set to 1 by default. This low value is good for detecting fast moving cars that are only in the shot for a brief time. The number of frames required to end an event is controlled by the variable `event_end_threshold`. It's set to 12 by default, which was empirically determined to be a good value for our setup, as it prevented a single event from being counted multiple times. Feel free to tweak these threshold values based on your situation.
```

#### Running `main.py`

Before running `main.py`, uncomment this line: `# product_uid = 'com.your-company:your-product-name'`. Replace `com.my-company.my-name:my-project` with the [ProductUID of the Notehub project](https://dev.blues.io/notehub/notehub-walkthrough/#finding-a-productuid) you created in [Notehub Setup](#notehub-setup).

At this point, you could copy `main.py` onto the MCU, reboot the MCU, and the code would start running. However, you won't be able to see the detections (or mis-detections). Instead, use OpenMV IDE to run the code.

1. Open OpenMV IDE.
2. Click the Open File icon in the left-hand toolbar and select `main.py`.
3. Click the Connect button in the bottom left corner.
4. Click the Start button below the Connect button.

The code is now running on the MCU, and you'll be able to see what the camera sees in the Frame Buffer. Additionally, when the model detects a car, the code will draw a circle at the point of the detection in the Frame Buffer.

This is super valuable for evaluating the performance of the model in real time. Additionally, you can monitor serial logs by clicking Serial Terminal at the bottom of the IDE window.

> Once you're happy with how the model is performing, you can copy `main.py` over to the board so that it'll run outside the IDE context with this command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you're happy with how the model is performing, you'll want to run it independently of the IDE. Copy `main.py` over to the board with this command:
```

```
python pyboard.py -d <serial port> --no-soft-reset -f cp main.py :/
```

> Note that for `pyboard.py` to work, you'll need to install [pyserial](https://pypi.org/project/pyserial/) with `pip install pyserial`, if you don't have it installed already. Make sure to replace `<serial port>` with your serial port. Unplug the camera board and plug it back in to reboot the device. `main.py` will start running after boot up.

Reviewer 2: Could you be more specific about what should be unplugged? I'm guessing the USB cable,  but saves guessing if we call it out explicitly.

I'm also imagining the development PC is no longer required, so it's worth calling out that the development PC is only required while training the model.

## Notehub Events

To see the `events.qo` notes on Notehub, navigate to your project page and click the Events tab on the left-hand side. Here, you should see `events.qo` notes with their associated timestamps in the Body column.

## Model Limitations

> The underlying machine learning model is [Edge Impulse's FOMO](https://docs.edgeimpulse.com/docs/edge-impulse-studio/learning-blocks/object-detection/fomo-object-detection-for-constrained-devices). With this model, it's difficult to accurately identify multiple cars in a given frame, as FOMO will often produce multiple detections for the same car. You can see this happen in the GIF above. As such, if there are multiple cars in the frame, that will still only count as 1 event. So, you'll get a more accurate car count if you focus the camera on a narrow region where there's typically only one car passing through at a time.

Reviewer: > in the GIF above

there is no gif :)

Reviewer: > So, you'll get a

Because of this, you’ll get a

Just a suggestion.
